In this section we'll cover events of the larval application in detail.
So let's start with the events that we already know which are model events.
So if you remember on blog post and on comment we created some model events.
So whenever something happens to our model lot of it is dispatching a specific event.
For example we have our deleting event here which is being dispatched before a model is being deleted.
Then there is updating restoring and we also have a creating event on the comment model.
We mostly use that to simply clear the cache that we have previously created for a specific blog posts.
Now let's also imagine that there might be times when you will have to add some handlers to much more
events of a particular model or that for any reason those even start to be much more complicated and
contain a lot of logic.
And this would make this hard to read and not really a good practice to put all those code into specific
closures on a particular model.
So compare it to creating our routes and closures inside your web page.
So if we have what we actually have right now all our controllers would be inside the web BHP those
file would be unreadable.
It would be too long.
So there is a way to do it differently in travel and you can compare it like creating the closures and
the routes inside your work BHP and creating controllers and for the Model Events.
The thing is called an observer so you can create those observer classes that will have methods defined
that match the names of the events that are being dispatched on the model.
So let's go ahead and create our first observer.
As usual we can do that easily using an artisan command.
So the name is BHP artisan make server so let's create the blog post.
Observer we need to specify for which model this is.
So it's for the blog post.
Now this was created successfully and now there is the new directory in our app directory called observer's
and this is where all the observer classes would go.
So let's open up the blog post observer.
You can see that Lara has put some events in there so we have created updated they all have the methods
which get passed an instance of the model to which this event relates.
So let's move our logic from the model itself to an observer.
So the first one would be the deleting event.
So we cannot find it.
It's not there.
But that's not a problem we can define this event because it's one of the valid model events.
So it's deleting blog post
and that we can handle all the logic inside this particular observer.
So let's move that so we can copy this method here also make sure that you have the cash for say import
here inside this blog post observer.
It's always important to remember that especially if you are copying some code.
So we are essentially doing the same thing as we did on the closure but now every logic regarding a
particular model events is in one single class.
So what do we have next.
The updating so there is only updated.
So lets you then copy this method and create another one up.
Updated
sorry this is actually updating.
I keep writing it wrong so it's updating.
OK.
And what we want to do here is just clear that cache element for a blog post.
We already have the cash for seed imported and then the rest restoring for restoring our self deleted
model.
So there is only a restart here.
So let's create restoring public function restoring
blog post as a parameter and there it is so you can either keep those methods so well you won't have
to define them in the future or other natively you can just remove those that are not implemented because
they are not mandatory that you only have to define those that you want to handle.
So removing all those methods and now it might be much clearer.
So it depends on your needs because well defining those events inside the boot method is also fine.
But it all depends how complicated and long they are getting.
Now that's not everything that you have to do.
So defining this class is not enough.
You also have to tell Lara though that it should use our specific observer class to observe our particular
blog particular model events.
Well you can do that inside an app service provider.
So at the bottom of the boot method of this class we can do blog post
observe and blog post.
Observer class.
So we are calling the static observe method on the model.
And then we have to parse the fully qualified class name of the observer class.
That's why I'm using the class constant and since we have used those two classes we might need to make
sure that they are important as a use statement.
Now the other thing you should know is that if you will have those events both defined on the boot method
so you will have them as closures.
They will always be called first only then Lavell will call the events of your observer.
So if you need both for any reason just so you know that.
But anyway since we now have an observer we can clear it up a little bit.
So the boot method stays because here we are also registering scope but for the comment basically we
do not need anything else.
We just would need an observer class.
So let's go ahead and also create one for the comments or make observer comment observer and model is
comment okay.
It should also create another observer.
Class
so let's go ahead and remove all those methods that we once support.
We only need actually one and it is creating so not created but creating and inside it.
If the commendable type is the blog post we clear the cache so let's also move this logic into this
observer class.
Now we of course have to make sure that we are importing the cash for sale here.
And since we are real relying on the class constant of the blog post we need to use it.
So up use up blog post and of course you will have to register this observer so comment absurd.
And comment observer
now the same applies to this fire.
So we have to use up command and we have set up comment and we have to use up observer's comment up
server
so you can see how this might make your application cleaner.
So whenever you will need anything to end it to handle any events related to our model.
Then you can just use the server classes make sure you registered them in any provider.
The best way is probably to use up service provider it's recommended by a lot of all.
So now our booth method is simpler so our model is shorter.
It only contains whatever is essential to this model like relations and query scopes but method is simple
because here we just register our scope and now inside that comment we do not need this method at all.
So we can remove the booth matter because we have only created it to register as some events so this
makes our comment even simpler and we can also remove this cache for seed so it has less dependencies.
The model class itself
now to make sure that this is actually run the those blog posts observers and comment observers actually
are wrong.
So let's do something like didi
i n delete it.
We'll just put a temporary here
ending the comment server will add d d I am create it so save the changes and now Let's attempt to delete
our blog posts so we can see I am deleted.
So this was called correctly.
Now go on the blog post and try to add a comment
and you can see I am created.
So exactly what we are dumping inside our Model Observers so we can.
Now we are sure that they are actually working.
So save the changes comment that out and in the next lecture of this section we'll learn about other
types of events that larval application can produce and also how we can create our own events and then
handle them.